Data Analyst – Data Intelligence

Decisions at trivago are driven by data. With data, you can make reasoned decisions
and drive positive company outcomes. Our Data Intelligence unit is at the center of
all other units in the company facilitating data-driven decision making. As a Data
Analyst in this unit, you will work on company-level projects with people of diverse
skill sets, such as product owners, data scientists, and data engineers to ensure high
quality analytical consultancy.
This assignment is designed to give you a glimpse of some of the challenges you will
be facing in this role.

Please be aware there are no perfect solutions - for us, it's more important to see
how you find solutions, process your ideas, structure your thoughts and how you
make your decision paths.

SUBMISSION DEADLINE: 7 days upon reciving the case study.
HOW TO SUBMIT: Feel free to choose a format that works best for you. When you
have finished, please submit it to the link shared in the invitation email.

THE CHALLENGE

Session investigation
In dropbox, you will find some information about user visits to our site, stored as a
csv. Take a look at this data using the tools of your choice. You can find some basic
information about the columns in the data structure pdf.
First, we would like you to perform some descriptive analysis. What can you tell us
about the sessions that are included? Imagine that you want to understand the users
of our product and think about what would be important for you. Explore the data, get
a feel for how it is structured and show us what you can do.
Secondly we want you to explore certain KPIs. One of our core KPIs is the clickout
ratio (COR) defined as the sum of clickouts divided by the sum of sessions:

• Calculate the clickout ratio per platform and device type - what platform has the
highest COR? What device has the lowest COR? Are there differences by traffic
type? Can you draw any conclusions from the ratios about the coded values for
traffic type?

• Can you think of an additional two KPIs? Please provide KPI definitions and
charts or tables showing the development over time along with descriptions and
critical analysis of what you see.

Describe what you see and try to think about why these developments might be
happening. Expected output is a PDF or notebook with the following:
• Report on the data provided, illustrated with visualisations of data.
• Study on clickout ratio.
• KPI definition and chart or table showing the development over time along with
descriptions and critical analysis of what you see. 
Are there any recommendations you can give the product teams?
If you are unsure of the validity of any created KPIs due to low amounts of data, please
explain the method in measuring them.